I
think they had the same A&M Aggie attitude. And I
think there were some round outs and things like
that that went on. But I never participated. I
never cared to. I participated probably in some
hazing, but not a lot. I wanted the main service
that was provided. But beyond that, I didn't do a
lot. I just wasn't interested in it. Did the A&M
traditions remain comparatively consistent? I
think they did. I think they did. They began
wearing fish stripes again during
that period of time, which was good. I don't think
that hurt anybody. I don't think that doing
certain details, as we called it, by the
upperclassmen for a freshman at all properly
handled.
I do disagree with the majority of the physical
hazing, but I don't think some of it is so bad. Doing
so bad, the military academies today wouldn't be
doing it. But there is a limit, and I'm willing to
accept that there are strong limits.
I'm not big on this hazing aspect. We talked about
hitchhiking. Oh, social life after the war.
Getting dates and so forth. I did date some after
the war a couple of times with some girls from
Bryan. I don't know how, somebody I knew got me the
dates. Maybe Dick Harrison. God, I don't have any
idea. Well, there was another guy I could have done
it to, I can't remember. But I had a few dates with
them, but mostly We would go to Houston,
went to TSCW with my roommate for a weekend. He was
eventually, he was engaged, became engaged to
marry the girl he went up to see, and I went up with
him for a couple weekends. How did you all get up
there? Oh, we hitchhiked. And when you were there,
where did you stay? We got hotel rooms at that
point, but there were many nights, I forgot about
this, we went to San Antonio to play football games
and play Trinity and
Dallas, Austin, and we just spent in the lobbies of
the hotels. Lots of nights like that. We did get a
hotel when we went there. There were court trips
after the war. Were there court trips before you
went away? Yes. Yes, there were court trips. And
Houston, Dallas, Fort Worth, and Austin?
Houston, two a year. One north, one south? Yeah, we
didn't go to Waco at that point. We did Fort Worth
and Dallas. And describe the routine of march, and
where, and how, and so forth. I don't remember much
more than we marched from Austin. Of course, it was
down near the river, near the first or sixth street
in that area. We formed and marched towards the
capital. Houston, we marched from near then City
Hall south. The viewing stand was at the Rice
Hotel, as I remember it back then. And that would
occur about what time of day? Mid-morning on
Saturday before the game.
Dallas, I don't remember where we were. Baker
Street or what we did there. Was it assumed that
every member of the Corps would go? What if you
couldn't make the Corps trip? Was that all right?
They were encouraged to go. No punishment? Not
that I remember. After the war, was the routine
similar? As I remember. It was a leisure. After my,
let's see, I guess when I was Last of my first
semester back, I got a car. That would have been
about May of 47, I guess it was. Thereabouts, I got a
car, so that made it easy. We all shared gasoline
expenses. We'd fill up the car with three or four or
five people, and we all shared gasoline expenses.
Where did an Aggie keep his car? That time, we had
parking lots near Duncan. I think whether it's the
drill field that was where we had . But that's the
general area, probably still a parking lot. Where
were there any places that were sort of off limits
to Aggie students in the Brasses County area?
Well, we closed Ed's after my first semester. I
went out there one time. Where was that? On the old
Highway 6 to Houston. I remember it as a
stone-fronted building. I was there once and then
it got closed. Was that Hard Liquor's? No. No, it
was Ed's. It might have been Hard Liquor's too. I
knew it was Ed's. What did they serve? Beer, of
course. Was there said to be a house of ill repute
anywhere in Brasses County? Not that anybody ever
showed me or told me about. Where did y'all get
whiskey? Somehow or other we got across to
Dimebox, isn't that near there across the river? I
don't remember. Somewhere across the river north
of Bryan. I don't remember. I only remember how we
got there. Was it normal for anybody to have
alcohol in the dormitory? I don't think so. I think
we just managed to drink it before we came back. I
never kept any. I don't know. They might have had
some. Not before the war. After the war, there was
more than one bottle stored, I'm sure. What were
the important, either before or after the war,
what were the important social events of the year?
Class dances. Held where? Sabisa. Describe them
in terms of what happened and how you dressed.
Well, just in uniform, before the war certainly,
and afterwards when I was in the Corps, I dressed in
uniform, I know. Class A uniform. The girls were
formals. How were the girls? They stayed in the
empty dormitories that were empty for them, or
professors' homes or civilian homes. How were
they treated at those dances? I think with the
utmost respect, I don't ever remember having any
difficulty with that. Were there any notable
musical organizations that came? No, none that I
remember in special. Because before the war,
there were. I've not heard of any after the war.
Yeah, I've never heard of it. I don't
know
any. Let's see. No notable world events during
your return to? After the war. Yeah, the Texas City
disaster. Oh, describe that. Well, we heard about
it. We all went on top of Dorm 9. I think we heard
about it over the radio while we were sunbathing on
the top roof of Dorm 9. And we all looked towards
Houston and swore that we saw smoke. That's a
debatable question, too. I'm looking at my notes.
Other
than alcohol, were there any other substances
that people used that most people would have said
were not permissible? I never heard of that drug.
Cigarettes, of course. They were encouraged. But
the advertising at that period of time, this
encouraged people to smoke, and nobody thought
anything about it. You smoked the smoke. What do
you remember as the most popular varieties? I
remember Lucky Strike Green has gone to war,
Campbell's. Cigars were smoked in jail practice
at some. No chugged back and no snuff. I don't
remember those. All right, football games after
the war. Any change? We formed the T, the block T at
home. On the field? On the field. Who was in the T?
I think everybody but freshmen. We might even have
freshmen. I don't remember any discrimination,
but I know certainly the juniors and seniors were.
And that was stopped when they ran over Doug Walker
at the SMU game. The following year or two after
that, it was stopped. I think that was good and bad,
but I thought it was a good formation to have. I
liked it. Who were some of the sports celebrities
of your student days?
Bill Geary,
who's the president, I think, of Texas Utilities
today. He played center on the football team. Not
Bill Geary. Bill Geary was in. played in,
Bob Geary. G-A-R-Y. G-A-R-Y.
Marion Flanagan, Red Burdette,
football, Earl Beasley, pitcher in baseball
before the, well, and then I can't think of the
name. Hondo. Hondo. Hartone? Yeah, Clint
Hartone. Not Clint, but he was punting for the
football team too. My half played fleeting. Clint
Hartone was a Giants baseball player, but he did
have one. What was his name? I can't think of it.
Robert Smith. Well, those were later years. That
was after I graduated. Oh, that's right. That's
right. I'm sorry. But when I came back, it was
Broussard and Marion Flanagan, I think I
mentioned. Stubby Matthews.
Do you remember any? Ed Steisenberger. Remember
any special games? Winning or losing? Once it was
Austin, Texas. I remember those.
But other than that, as a student, I don't remember
anything, what, so special. Okay, did you? We
played, those days, we played at Olmby Stadium. We
played SMU at Olmby Stadium, and I remember.
Did you go through final review? Yes. Describe
that, please. Probably the best military
experience I had when I was there. I never could
have had an officer
reasons. Who knows? Grades weren't real good. I
wasn't too outspoken. I was an athletic officer,
but that didn't mean anything as a cadet officer.
Who knows? Whatever the reason, I don't know. But
yeah, I wasn't ever selected. But I did have an
opportunity to be a battalion commander at the
practice review, and that was a big thrill for me.
Who came to the fine review from your family? I
suppose my parents did, but I don't remember. Was
there any notable dignitary at that fine review?
Where was it held? Well, what do they call it, Oren
Simpson's field now? Well, the drill field. The
drill field, yeah. And then commencement, when
you graduated? We went through commencement and
commissioning, but I couldn't get a diploma
because I hadn't finished summer camp for ROTC. I
had a commitment there, so I went through, got my
diploma and got my commission, but they were empty
cylinders. And it was held where? On Kyle Field.
Outdoors? Outdoors. Was there a notable speaker
at that, or the year ago? I probably got the field at
home, but I don't remember anything special that I
can recall. Every name called? Every hand shaken?
Every hand shaken, every name called. It was a big
thrill to walk across and get commissioned and
uniformed. Let's see. Was muster after the war
there anything different?
It wasn't as impressive a ceremony as it is today.
I'm trying to remember where I was in April of 47.
Nothing special stands out.
Let's see. Bonfire. Describe bonfire in those
days. All I know is it got built with big logs and
upperclassmen health and where the logs came
from. It was logs? Yeah. Alright, did you all have a
bonfire during the war? As I remember we did.
Where?
I think it was on the drill field. I think you're
right. I don't remember it was on the drill field.
And was that trash? Later, no. They might have had
some small trash, but most of it was still fairly
good sized logs. Not nearly as high. Was there any
kind of structure up on top? Of course, the old
outhouse was always there. Where did those come
from? Nobody ever knew. Especially in later
years, they weren't used that much.
Did you have any special friends from that
post-war time that were? Jimmy McGregor was my
roommate and I stayed in contact with him for many
years afterwards. Of course, Babe Schwartz was
after the war and I stayed, and still do. Duke Hobbs
is a class agent now. One of the bigger thrills I
ever had was becoming a class agent,
later years of course after the war, and long
after.
Eddie Hinkle was killed in service.
Oh, Buddy Powell and I remain close friends from
all the way through. Johnny Murchison, Dick
Osterholm, Paul Ostermeyer.
Handball was an event in those days, old wooden
handball courts. Trying to think how to tell you
where they were. They were just west of the P.L.
Downs Natatorium. Wooden frame buildings that
were used for handball courts. They didn't play
racquetball, they played handball. Those were
used quite a bit. The guy who eventually married my
cousin and I played a lot of handball there from
Waco, Harvey Miller. That's in 48. Was
intramurals important? Intramurals, they
weren't that important, but we participated. I
remember in softball and football, I didn't do
basketball, I never could sink a basket.
But I think those are the only ones that I recall.
Did you go by train much? No, we didn't go by train
very much. I think I had one Several times I came
back from Houston on the train late at night. We
used to run a cross-country course as freshmen,
which was around the then dairy barn and I guess
cattle pens, cow pens, the dusty violent
six-tenths that we had to run. The best time I ever
had was after I took the The owl from Houston got
back at 4 o'clock in the morning, or maybe even
later, and had to run at 8 o'clock. I was too tired
not to stop. I know if I stopped, I'd never quit,
never make it. When you're preparing to leave the
campus with your new degree, what sort of world did
you think you were entering? What was ahead? There
was really nothing ahead. There were six jobs, as I
recall, offered to aeronautical engineering
graduates. Everybody wanted the one or two or
three that were offered by Chance Lawton, which
was in Connecticut, because he knew they were
going to eventually, they already got announced
moving back to Dallas, so everybody wanted to go
there for a period of time
so they could then get the experience and then move
back. Again, whether the reasons, I have no idea.
Probably poor grades and a poor interview, I
didn't get one of them. So the next, and my dad was
quite ill at the time, so I took the next best thing
that turned out best because he was very ill. And
went to work in his business, which was then known
as Houston Paper Company. Never thought much
about anything more than that, except it was a job.
Did you feel that you were, that A&M had prepared
you well? Not at that time because I, except one
time later years, let's see this was probably, I
finished in 48 so this might have been maybe 51 or
so. We had built an addition to the building, and
they were complaining because it was a hot area.
The fans weren't drawing, but they had exhaust
fans. And we had an entrance, a big 10-foot square
warehouse entrance on the bend, which had been the
east side of that section. The warehouse rail dock
was on the north side, and they were complaining
because they weren't I couldn't feel any of it.
Well, I finally convinced the superintendent of
that area and my dad that if they would close the
doors halfway, that they would feel the draft more
because of the velocity of the granite. And my dad
said, you did learn something. That's the only
time I know, except for using the slide rules of
multiply and divide, is the only time I felt like I
ever used any of it, by education, official
education. Back to interviewing. Did the
interviewers come to the campus? Yes. Where were
the interviews conducted?
I don't really remember. I suppose it was... Could
have been the library. Any special preparation
that y'all made? No, no. We just signed up for it and
dressed. I'm sure we put coats and ties on or
uniforms. But one of the questions he asked me I'll
never forget, of course, is, where would you like
to be if you get this job five years from now? And I
said, well, I don't know much about the industry,
so I really don't know how to answer. I said, what
places are there? He described something, and I
said, I think I'd like to be a manager of a design
function. I don't know. I just never felt
comfortable, I guess. I never thought I felt
comfortable anyway.
Aggie ring. Did people get their rings then? We got
our rings. If you qualified with hours to be a
senior and were going into service, you could get
your rings graduation.
So we did get our rings. I got mine in May of 1945.
I'll never forget it. Bright and shiny, not bright
and shiny, but dark, brand new. And I remember a few
periods of weeks that I had it before it went into
service. I wanted it to look old and beat up, so I
would turn it upside down and hammer it into the
wooden desk. So when the gold would beat up, I
wouldn't look quite so new. I regretted it later.
And was there pride in Aggie rings then?
Tremendous. Tremendous pride. It cost us $39,
$36, $39.
Ten carat gold. My son got his. It was ten times as
much. But that's okay. He got it finally. Let's
see. It helped me, as a matter of fact, while I was in
service. Oh, good. There was a lieutenant colonel
that was, we were in operations and he was in
intelligence or some other function at the
headquarters there, and when must retain, that
was the story I meant to tell, I forgot. Oh, please.
I asked my lieutenant I worked for if I could go talk
to him. So he said yes, why, and I told him why, and he
said, well, I said, but I'm scared. He said, don't
be afraid. You have some relationship in a way.
They're human beings too. So I went up there and did
the usual military salute and asked permission to
speak and asked him if he was going to the muster. He
said, what do you know about muster? Or something
to that effect. And I said, I'm an Aggie, sir. If
you'll go with me, I'll go. I said, yes, sir. I'd
like to go and meet some of my classmates that I knew
had written that were going to be there. So he said,
meet me at some time, a certain hour in the morning,
and I'll have a staff car there. So I met him. And the
driver we had suited smartly when he came up. And he
looked at me kind of funny. And I started to get in
the front seat next to the driver, because I was the
carpenter. PFC, our carpool, and the lieutenant
colonel that most were getting back with me. So we
went, and I drove in the back with him, and we drove
to the muster and went to the ceremony. And then
there were two guys that I knew there from my class
that I wanted to stay with, Dwayne Bennett and
Ellen Gabert. So I went to him before it was, or
after it was over, and asked if I could stay. I'd
like to stay overnight. We had no orders. He said,
well, if you get in any trouble, just tell them
there's a verbal officer, commanding officer,
and I'll take care of it. So I stayed. Where was
this? This was, well, again, I don't remember the
name of this. They had Hamburg, Germany, as I
remember. But again, I've got, no, I sent the
program to the court center. This would have been
40, 1946. 46. And so I can't tell you the name of the
city either. I think it was Bad Humburg. Oh, I may
have a letter from home that can tell me. But any
event, we spent the night there and visited. And he
went on back. And I don't know how I got, I guess I did
hide back. I don't know how I got back to that. I
don't fit. After the war on the campus, did you have
the impression that the traditions were stronger
than they had been? Lister, Bonfire, Silver Taps?
No, I don't think so. There might have been more
pressure, more feeling of tradition because of
those who'd been in service participated in those
kinds of events. And I think that probably made a
impression on me, even though I was a lot younger.
And I'm sure it must have on the others. So I suspect
it probably did have some impact. See, I had the
impression that World War II was a kind of a special
time in solidifying those. Some of the people that
I've interviewed can't remember whether muster
was held before the war began or not. They think it
was, but if so, some of them didn't remember going.
Well, and I think that had a lot to do with the fact
that I did not go to the first muster. I came to
Houston to see my friend, but I could have come
after the muster, too. Let's see, another
question somebody told me to ask, did you live in
Hollywood? And I don't know that term. I don't
either. OK. All right. Running wood and water. I
don't know that one. Plenty of water through the
drowned outs and fire hoses were turned on my first
two semesters, first three semesters. Hard
liquors and Uncle Ed, we know about. Uncle Ed's,
yeah. After the war, was the student body more
diverse? Were there any more Hispanics, Asian
Americans?
I don't remember whether the influx of
international students came later or during that
period, not this time. I don't remember. What
about the academic rigor after the war? My grades
were better, but I think I was just more mature and
could understand. I mean, the courses I failed, I
failed two courses. Analytical math was the first
that Ransdell taught. Analytical geometry was
the course he taught, and I couldn't remember. I
didn't fail that one, but the only two courses I
remember failing were the only semester of
physics I had to take and that English course.
That's before you went away. That was before the
war, and I made B's afterwards, which wasn't
great, but they were a hell of a lot better than
Taylor. Now, in my case, I don't remember we ever
calculated a grade point average. Did y'all? We
did on a three-point, not a four-point basis. Oh,
that's right. Yes, it was. And so we had to
interpolate later in order to figure out what ours
was. But we kept the C average, which was a one, or
better. And it was OK. All right, now we're getting
close to the end and close to the serious
questions. As you look back, what did you learn at
A&M that's been significant in your life?
I think certainly I grew up and matured between A&M
and the military. I think it definitely had a
humbling experience for me. Think about my family
life. My dad had his own business. We lived nicely.
We had cars. My dad had a company car, even in, well,
everything I can remember. And then my mother had a
car.
They weren't always new cars. One of them, a couple
of them I remember specifically, we bought from
the doctor. a lot of used cars, but later on they
became new. 1939, I know we had a new car, no matter
what it did. But we lived nicely, and I didn't have
that much to be concerned about. So when I got up
there and I did learn that everybody was more
humble and basically the same, and you treated
everybody the same, and there wasn't any
difference between one and another, I think I did
learn a lot
there.
qualities of being an Aggie? What does it mean to be
an Aggie? I think it's being able to meet people, to
converse with them, to recognize that the
secretary or the warehouseman may someday be as
important as the person you're trying to do
business with, so you better damn well treat them
right. And certainly if you're in the military,
you have recognition of the needs and wants and
desires What are
the
factors that contribute most to Aggie spirit,
feeling? Commonality of attitudes, the fact that
people, at least in those days, and I guess maybe to
some degree today, but at least in those days,
dressed alike, you didn't know who was who, or what
was what, or what they had or didn't have. So if they
didn't have it and they worked in the mess hall, and
some of our friends worked in the mess hall to get
through school, some of them dropped out here and
there, they worked for a while and came back,
fortunately I didn't have to. But it didn't seem to
make any difference who they were or what they
were. Pretty much, as far as I was concerned,
everybody felt the same. And as I said before, I
never felt any religious problems. Not to say they
may not have been there. They probably were.